---
layout: post
title: Failure
date: 2016-05-15 05:00:00.000000000 -08:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories:
---

We all have failed at a point in our lives. We have failed at job interviews, on delivering projects on time, or even launching a startup. Failing at any scale can be hard because is not the end result that everyone wants. There is loss of time, money and effort.

The best way to deal with failure is by learning from it. At a bigger scale, we dispose of more data gathering tools to determine points of failure. At a smaller scale (personal level), self-awareness is our way to learn what went wrong. For the knowledge to be valuable, we need to put our ego and arrogance aside. Disregard the forces outside your power that contributed to your failure. Hold yourself accountable for everything. Don't make excuses for yourself, they only help on disregarding failure.

To think about self-awareness, let's assume you failed at a job interview. Start by measuring the level of confidence of your answers. If you felt that your binary tree algorithm response was not the best, you will spend time learning it. You may have failed the interview by giving a poor taste or lacking of substance answer. To recognize this, you need to have high self-awareness. Working with a person that gives you honest feedback, can be the best way to improve self-awareness.

With failure in the past, fear will come in place in the future. Fear will help avoid making the mistakes that led to failure. When it comes to fear, Mr. Holmes said it best: *"Fear is wisdom in the face of danger."* Fear is an emotion driven by knowledge from our failures and lessons from others. Fear helps us be careful and calculated, thus making smarter decisions.

Earned success is built on the foundation of knowledge gathered from failures and hard work. Great success will come if you fail often and work hard while at it.
